We see extreme forms of leverage and
speculation which is memecoins,
perpetual futures, leverage trading
products. And then you see extremely
conservative assets that are basically
stable coins. The vast majority of
finance happens in between these two
things. But for some reason, crypto has
aired to the two extremes.
[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Ryan Galvanker,
the founder of Plaza Finance, a
programmable derivatives platform built
on base. In this conversation, we
discussed Ryan's Tradi background and
how traveling abroad opened his eyes to
the realworld value that blockchain
offers, why institutional investment is
flowing on chain, Plaza's long-term
outlook on Ethereum, how Plaza leverages
ETHbased liquid staking and restaking
tokens, Plaza's bond ETH and Lev ETH
mechanics, and so much more. Just a
reminder, nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens and that the guest or host might
hold tokens discussed in any given
episode. You can check out a disclaimer
on
www.neontoday.com. Also, if you enjoyed
this episode, please consider rating and
reviewing it on your favorite podcasting
platform and sharing with your friends
and family. Every rating, review, like,
and comment helps us reach more people
and bring you more of your favorite
guests. With all that said, I really
enjoyed chatting with Ryan, and I hope
you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey
everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today, we're joined by Ryan
Galbanker, the founder of Plaza Finance,
a platform for programmable derivatives
built on base. How's it going today,
Ryan? It's going great. Thanks for
having me, Dylan. Yeah, I'm psyched to
have you. It's always uh nice to follow
in the footsteps of Giants. I was
mentioning before we recorded, I heard
you talk about Plaza on the Interop,
which is Sebastian Couture's podcast.
So, I was really excited to hear about
what you were working on and I can't
wait to share that with our audience.
But before we kind of like jump into
Plaza, um I think you bring a really
interesting perspective to the space and
that you started your career kind of
like in the Tradfi space or the
traditional financial space. So before
you started working on Plaza, can you
just kind of like walk us through the
different capital managements you worked
for, Meil Lynch and things like this? In
college, I studied uh electrical
engineering and and finance at the
University of Pennsylvania and quickly
fell in love with with markets and ways
uh to use math and engineering to to
gain an edge. So while I was in college,
I I I was lucky enough to have the
opportunity to to intern on the on the
trading desk of Bank of America, Maril
Lynch. Very much how the movies uh
depict a Wall Street trading floor. Full
chaos, people screaming across the room.
I thought it was a really fun
environment, but for me personally, I I
I liked to be thoughtful around what I
was doing rather than just pure pure
flow. So I I learned from that
experience that like, hey, maybe maybe
the better place for me is like an
investing role. rather than a a dynamic
trading role. So after school, I I was
lucky enough to get a job at a hedge
fund called Magnetar Capital. Um it's
they primarily focus on structured
credit. So things like pools of home
loans, pools of car loans, finding ways
to to lever up those assets or or
construct riskreward profiles that are
well suited for for for those the
Magnetar investors. Um they're famous
for being one of the the funds in 2008
to to to benefit from the the big short
trade. Um and I was I was lucky to to
work with with that team. Uh I was there
for for 2 years in investing in in
things like home loans, car loans, uh
physical aircraft, music royalties,
anything with a with a cash flow that
you can uh understand and value. And
then after that I went to a fund called
Adallayia Capital Management where I was
able to take on kind of a a bigger role
helping lead and craft new strategies.
So there I was focused on trading pools
of of corporate credit. Um so that was
that was pretty exciting. And then when
I was about a year into my my time at
Adallayia um some of my friends from
college had started a crypto company.
So, two of my friends, Magnus and Barry,
who lead Interchain Labs, previously
known as Skip Protocol, had started
working on Skip and were showing me all
of the cool things people were doing on
chain. That led me to start playing with
lending markets and perpetuals
exchanges. Got pretty excited there. At
that point, I actually wasn't convinced
that this whole blockchain
decentralization uh narrative like
actually needed to exist. Uh I was still
a sheltered American who uh had worked
at a hedge fund and for for sheltered
Americans work at hedge funds uh the the
traditional financial system works
pretty well for you. But then I went and
visited my fiance's family in Kazakhstan
and saw um an economy that uh while it's
growing and is really robust there there
are problems that mean that uh
individuals can't always trust the banks
or or government programs. And that
really clicked in my brain of, okay,
there's all this cool infrastructure
that people like Skip are building and
there's this massive group of people
that need a highly functional financial
system where they don't need to trust
kind of the the big institutions in
their area. Okay, I need to go all in
and like make it at least on par with
what we have in traditional finance. And
and that was kind of the the path that
led me to to start Plaza Finance. So
Plaza, your kind of like aha moment came
within the past two two and a half
years. Yeah. But before that, I had like
I'd fomoed into Bitcoin and Ethereum
because some guys had told me like, "Oh,
you're going to miss out if you if you
don't buy it." So I had like done some
small size and thought of it as like,
"Okay, if I put like half a percent of
my portfolio in it, maybe it improves my
riskadjusted returns or whatever uh
whatever Trady people say to convince
themselves to to put a small amount of
money into crypto." But I hadn't really
seriously thought about it until two of
the smartest people I know had basically
pivoted their entire careers to to build
in this space and that that's what
really got my attention. Yeah. When was
the first time like you stumbled on
Bitcoin or Ethereum? Was it when you
were studying? Was it before when you
started your career? It was probably in
college 2016 2017. That cycle I think
there was a lot of talk about like
buying Bitcoin. And I remember there was
a guy on my on my floor who was
moonlighting as contributing open source
to to Ethereum and he was he was telling
me about blockchains. But at the time it
it seemed really crazy and implausible
to me and like a little candidly like on
Wall Street we always had conversations
about like crypto is this huge
speculative bubble with with no real
utility. Up until this month Jamie
Diamond was was maintaining that he he
Bitcoin was a scam. So, it it did take
me a while to come around, but I'm fully
around and I've left my hedge fund job
to to advance the decentralized
financial system full-time. Yeah, it's
pretty funny because Jamie Diamond has
actually even if you like still kind of
dig through the weeds, he still says he
doesn't really like Bitcoin, but the
banks are starting to on board into
these ecosystems. They're starting to
build on blockchain. I've probably had
several guests on the pod dating back to
2022 who said that banks and big names
that we would recognize were silently
building on top of crypto rails and they
were just waiting for good regulation to
come around before they kind of went
public with what they were building. Was
that kind of your experience in I
wouldn't say in the trenches, but like
you're probably robbing elbows with a
lot of different people across a lot of
different traditional financial
institutions while you're still working
on Wall Street. So, what was kind of
like was it like a scarlet letter? Was
it kind of like a dirty little secret
that people were building on these
things, exploring them, or was it just
kind of like, "Yeah, I'm just getting
off my portfolio, getting off 1% and,
you know, getting a little bit of
exposure." What What What was kind of
like the vibe back then? Banks were
looking at blockchains more from a
hedging risk perspective. I think when
you're a giant company with a trillion
dollar balance sheet, you have to
allocate some amount of money to
exploring new technologies to make sure
you don't get caught with your with your
pants down. So, it was it was kind of a
joke these blockchain jobs at at big
banks for quite a while where your job
was to research and play with blockchain
stuff and to write reports that senior
executives then skimmed and threw in the
garbage bin, but you weren't actually
allowed to to build anything. I think
now that's that's starting to change as
the regulations do become clear. So for
a while it was making sure the banks had
people who knew things about blockchain
so that if they needed to go fast
because it became clear that their
customers wanted it or it was going to
disrupt their existing businesses in
some way that they were positioned for
it. And then on the other end of the
spectrum there was a bunch of hedge
funds that started market making in
crypto. And for those it wasn't
necessarily viewed as a scarlet letter.
Uh those those folks were like they're
private funds. everyone viewed them as
doing whatever they could to make money.
So, it was fair game, but not a not a
business that banks or kind of I guess
middle of the road TRDFI institutions
were exploring. And then I think a shift
started to happen probably in
2021 where we saw more private credit
funds and and private equity funds
figuring out Bitcoin mining place. Uh
miners are super capital intensive. They
require significant energy. So you have
to do deals with real companies like uh
energy utilities. So while I was at
Magnetar, we actually did a Bitcoin
mining financing and I would say that
started the shift of let's say the most
adventurous hedge funds to the the next
tier that are maybe slightly more
conservative with banks always being
positioned not sure if they were going
to do an internal stable coin or like a
private blockchain ledger to settle
transactions. And now we're starting to
see, I think, more the the full spectrum
of financial institutions in traditional
finance figuring out how they're going
to position. So, I'm quite excited to
see a lot of these the bigger funds that
were in the bracket of the funds I I I
worked at exploring things like loans
backed by Bitcoin and things like that.
So I think we've been given the promise
that institutions were coming on chain
for maybe like 5 years now and it hasn't
really happened but I do feel like there
has been material progress in the last
couple years and especially with the
regulatory shift things are definitely
accelerating. Yeah, I know this isn't
necessarily your area of expertise but
you just touched on it. I'd check maybe
rwa.xyz. It's it's a phenomenal real
world asset platform that just kind of
shows like the status of tokenization of
various different like commodities,
equities. You're nodding your head, you
understand. And private credit is kind
of one of the rapidly growing tokenized
forms on
RWA.xyz. So what is it about blockchain
networks that makes private credit so
easily onboardable to to come on chain?
I think these are like relatively stable
funds investing in generally blue chip
private opportunities. So if tokenized
treasuries have some broad-based appeal,
then this is like the next thing you
want to try uh in addition to like
corporate bonds. So I think that's what
you're you're seeing maybe come on
chain. I also think that there's just so
much appetite for private credit that
like Wall Street is looking for
different ways to package it and raise
more capital and blockchains have
classically been a been a way to do
that. But what what I'm actually more
excited about than tokenizing p private
credit funds is those private credit
funds actually like investing in onchain
opportunities which I think is a bigger
lift because it it takes more infra but
that's the direction where I think it's
like a material advancement in in in
blockchain to see those funds flow. I
think it's great for people around the
world to get access to these fund
vehicles through tokenization but the
the the bigger pool of money is actually
the other way coming onto blockchains.
Are you starting to see that happen?
Because you mentioned in your prior
example that funds were flowing on chain
to invest into like Bitcoin miners and
so now we have all sorts of different
verticals in the web 3 space. We have
like NFTTS, DeFi, Dows, you know, other
sorts of infrastructure. So is is that
like kind of Cambrian explosion of of
flows coming onchain and investing into
web 3 verticals starting to happen? I
think so. I I think there's two main
buckets that are happening today. it's
probably going to be a surge of of
venture capital. Uh so that goes into
basically every vertical of of
blockchain and the ultimate LPS like
where where the money ultimately comes
from is like large sovereign wealth
funds or family offices. In terms of
like onchain DeFi activity, I I don't
think we've seen the big influx of of
tradi capital yet. And that one's a
little bit harder because it requires
investment in self-custody, investment
in infrastructure to gather data and
analyze it on the blockchain. So until
the opportunity set becomes sufficiently
large, it's hard for these big funds to
to justify the upfront cost before they
see the the obvious opportunity of
profit. So what we've seen is like
faster moving like quick money hedge
funds have definitely come on chain. So
I think the the next wave will likely
come when kind of there's sufficient
retail volume or or demand from from
retail such that the opportunity set for
these big hedge funds is is large enough
to justify the investment. Yeah. Do you
feel that that shift in in retail
sentiment is coming back? I mean, if
I've been to maybe in the past like six
months like uh Binance blockchain week,
token 2049, the both the consensuses and
you see you even go on crypto Twitter,
you see a lot of negative sentiment from
like bag holders and and retail guys,
but then you know, as you mentioned
earlier, the institutions are finally
coming and there's a different level of
excitement coming from the institutional
space. So, is it are we finally going to
get like crypto Twitter happy? Is retail
finally turning around or are we still
kind of like being led by institutions
right now? I think I'm not the right
person to ask about this because uh I
I've not cracked the code on how to make
uh crypto Twitter happy. It's
impossible. I I I have a feeling that
like crypto Twitter is well-meaning in
the sense that we all want blockchains
to succeed, but there's always going to
be problems that people are going to
complain about and that's probably a
good thing uh because that like drives
progress and it holds projects builders
accountable. So I think the primary
reason why crypto Twitter is is still I
guess at a midpoint today not happy not
uh unhappy on the spectrum of where it
has been is because the pros the
exciting part is like okay Bitcoin and
Ethereum are are doing well and that's
largely driven by institutional flows
like the things that we can practically
see but the the thing that is lagged
behind are are altcoins and a lot of
cryptos Twitter is overexposed to
altcoins so until we see like altcoins
like truly benefit from this this rise
in institutional interest on the Bitcoin
and Ethereum side. I think crypto
Twitter will will continue to to
complain and and maybe rightfully I hope
all coins uh do do make a comeback.
There's a lot of great projects that I
think deserve to be valued higher than
they they are valued today, but I think
it'll it'll take time for that money to
flow from the institutional side at
least. So, retail is still holding the
bag on a lot of these altcoins. Cool.
Well, I think what Plaza is building is
really excitable because it it seems to
be a bridge between the worlds that you
came from and building on on the best
parts of the tech stack that blockchain
seems to offer. And so, a lot of our
listeners are probably cryptonative or
maybe just crypto curious for the first
time. And and I would venture to guess
that maybe a lot of our listeners aren't
necessarily like Wall Street Trifi guys.
So let's just do like a few Eli 5
definitions so that as we're going
through what Plaza offers, people can
kind of like have some context and
understand. So when we hear the word
like programmable derivatives, what is
that in like an elevator pitch? Yeah. Uh
programmable derivatives, fancy term
that I made up. Uh it it basically is a
tokenized structure on top of a vault.
So you take some assets, you put them in
a smart contract vault, and then that
vault can issue different derivatives
that are backed by that underlying vault
that represent different splits of the
return stream of whatever is in that
vault. When we talk about programmable
derivatives, we talk about it in the
context of our products. So our products
are Bond ETH and Levath. They're
essentially programmable derivatives of
Ethereum. So we took Ethereum and we
split it into a bond profile that is for
those who want stability and yield and
fixed returns and a levered profile for
those who can handle the volatility,
want more upside to ETH. Both are
packaged as as nice tokens so you can
move them easily across other DeFi
across chains. They're always backed by
this underlying vault. Perfect. I was
going to ask you what bonds are next,
but I think you did a great job
explaining it there. So maybe something
that a crypton native might also have to
wrap their head around as we continue
our discussion is is this concept of
fixed quarterly coupons. So can you just
describe what those are, how they relate
to bonds, and then we'll kind of go into
the unique ways in which bond ETH
provides these. So a coupon is a Wall
Street word for yield. It just means a a
a payment of of of income. So bonds
generally pay monthly or quarterly or
annual coupons which means you actually
earn your yield at a fixed point in time
uh every every period. So our bond
product bond ETH uh is a bond backed by
ETH that earns a quarterly coupon. So
every quarter you you get some income if
you hold uh bond ETH and that income is
in USDC. Cool. So, we're starting to
kind of like get the flavor of of the
water for what differentiates Plaza from
other kind of like DeFi solutions. But
if you are out there and you're doing
your BD and you're trying to onboard new
users into your platform, what are some
of the unique points that you say
differentiates you from other
competitors, programmable derivatives
competitors or even just like DeFi in
general? Why we built Plaza? And when we
look at the DeFi landscape today, we see
a pretty bifurcated approach by the
industry. We see extreme forms of
leverage and speculation which is
memecoins, perpetual futures, leverage
trading products. And then you see
extremely conservative assets that are
basically stable coins USDC,
USDT. The vast majority of finance
happens in between these two things. But
for some reason, crypto has aired to the
two extremes because they kind of meet
the the needs of the earliest crypto
users. The earliest crypto users were
tech enthusiasts, risk-takers, and they
like leverage trading. And when you make
profits on leverage trading, you need to
put it into something safe. The other
big group of early crypto adopters were
those who have a strong distrust of
institutions and and want safety for
their assets and and stable coins
provide that. We view the the kind of
next iteration of the decentralized
financial system as mirroring the
functionality of the traditional
financial system. So we wanted to create
a mechanism where you can create all of
the risk profiles in between to capture
every type of investor to on-ramp the
next billion users into crypto. You need
assets that meet their needs. So that's
why we built Plaza as an engine for
transforming the risk and return of of
any asset into profiles that are better
suited for these different investors.
And Plaza's products are built on top of
ETH liquid staking derivatives and
restaking derivatives for the product.
So maybe for like someone who's bought
Bitcoin and has bought Ethereum but
doesn't necessarily know what LRTs are
and LSTs are, can you kind of go into
the subtle differences between the two
and then maybe use that as a jumping
point as to how like Bond ETH and Levy
leverage those? Liquid staking is
basically taking your ETH and delegating
it to to someone who is validating
transactions on on your behalf and
earning a reward from the blockchain
network for successfully validating
transactions. So you could think of it
as using your Ethereum to secure the
Ethereum network and process
transactions. And for doing that, you
you earn a small reward that today looks
like 2 to 3% yield on your Ethereum.
That's what staking is. Liquid staking
is basically taking a some staked
Ethereum, wrapping it in a token so that
you can continue to use it across DeFi.
So it looks like Ethereum, it feels like
Ethereum, you can you can use it
anywhere. Uh but it's earning that two 2
to 3% yield for helping secure the
Ethereum network. Restaking is basically
taking that staked Ethereum and using it
to help secure other projects that are
built in the Ethereum ecosystem and
earning a reward from those products. So
contributing those assets to ensure that
kind of decisions being made by uh
protocols uh are good and and fair and
if you successfully do that you you earn
some reward and just like liquid staking
liquid restaking is basically taking
that restake Ethereum and packaging it
as a nice token so you can move it
around and and do other things with it.
We have built bond ETH and Levath on top
of liquid staked and liquid restaked
tokens. uh one because it's they're
they're superior assets in the fact that
they're yield bearing. Uh if you're if
you just own ETH, that's great. You're
exposed to ETH going up and down. If you
have liquid staked ETH, we think the
risk is extremely small and you earn an
extra 2 to 3%. So that's that's a great
product. And then restaking, right now,
I think the the yields are a little low
for the risk of restaking. Um but we
hope that they go higher or the risks go
lower. uh and we think that this is like
a great frontier for the expansion of
ETH economic security. So also great
assets to to to build on top of but
essentially we wanted to take
decentralized assets like Ethereum and
create different return profiles that
meet different investors needs um
without taking away from the security of
ETH. If we were to build on top of just
vanilla Ethereum, then that Ethereum
would be sitting idle in the Plaza vault
while our assets would be flowing
around. By building on top of liquidst
and liquid rest tokens, it's easy to
convert your your bonds or leverage
token back to those assets. You can
easily sell them on an exchange. So you
you have all the freedom and flexibility
of of liquidity. Um but you also kind of
benefit and contribute to the security
of the Ethereum ecosystem. You benefit
from it in in terms of the liquid
staking or liquid restaking yield you
earn. You contribute to it by using your
Ethereum to ensure that the network is
secure. So we think it's an extremely
symbiotic relationship between ETH asset
holders and the the broader Ethereum
ecosystem and the right asset to build
on top of. So is the vault like a
composition of ETH native asset like
rocketpool ETH uh lido ETH and then a
bunch of these other LRTs. Exactly. So
the underlying vault that backs uh bond
ETH and Lev ETH is uh Lidos's wrapped
stakes ETH uh Rocket Pools ETH etherfi
uh Renzo and then Kelp and and a few
others. We opted to work with the
biggest and best LSTs because we want
these assets to be secured. And one
thing that we deeply think about is like
the ratio of each of these assets in the
underlying pool to make sure we're not
overexposed or our customers are not
overexposed to to one or the other and
making sure that the balance between
liquid staked and liquid restaked is is
appropriate. Targeting kind of specific
yield targets and and also risk targets.
Is that kind of like an active
management that you and your team do or
is there some sort of algorithm or
protocol that like keeps a percentage of
the basket in tune like a fifth lido, a
fifth rocket pool, etc.? Yes. And that
protocol is balanced. So, it's a it's a
balancer v2 pool where we we set the the
target weights based on our underwriting
of kind of the the properties of each of
these assets and balancers protocol
helps them self balance. This is one of
the biggest uh protocols truly
foundational in the Ethereum ecosystem.
Several hundred millions of of assets.
So, we're we're quite excited to to work
with them and and think they're they're
definitely some of the biggest brains in
the space. Yeah, I wanted to delve into
this a little bit later, but I think now
is as good a time as ever. If if you
look back over the past year, sentiment
around just Ethereum in general has been
very bad, but at the same time, you see
all these RWAs predominantly onboarding
onto Ethereum. So, what's Plaza
Finance's bet or outlook on the Ethereum
ecosystem? Like, what made it easy for
you guys to look past this negative
sentiment, explore, you know, people
building on other blockchains, other
ecosystems? What was it about Ethereum
that made you want to double down? So,
if if it's not obvious by the fact that
we built on Ethereum, uh we're super
bullish on Ethereum. Ethereum is the
most mature blockchain that exists today
in the sense that all of the tooling is
wellbuilt. It's truly decentralized.
Institutions trust it. Ethereum has the
vast vast majority of DeFi TVL which is
a strong signal that the biggest money
in the space like is comfortable holding
it on on Ethereum. Um, and a lot of the
negative sentiment was based on
properties of Ethereum that I actually
view as a good thing in the long run.
Meaning, Ethereum's negative sentiment
was largely driven by Salana taking off
and the Ethereum community feeling like,
hey, like they're shipping really fast
and Ethereum changes every 2 years in
like a very marginal way. That's
actually probably a good thing for like
big institutional capital. You don't
want uh the ground beneath you shifting
really massively where you have to think
about like am I introducing new risk on
my billion dollars of assets like do I
need to think about like rebalancing
here if the infrastructure is relatively
mature and stable that's quite
beneficial. So I think the Ethereum
ecosystem is is quite thoughtful around
the changes that get made. We saw the
sentiment shift of like okay we haven't
been left for dead after a couple years
of I guess quiet building from the
Ethereum Foundation when we got the
Pectra upgrade. So that addressed what I
thought were the two biggest problems in
Ethereum which were one gas so making it
cheaper to do transactions on Ethereum
and two uh smart wallet support so
making it easier for users to be able to
transact on Ethereum through the the
user experience. Once we got those two
things that we saw that sentiment shift
shifted quite materially because it was
kind of like a signal that like okay
like Ethereum is is still progressing
and it's at a pace that's that's
appropriate for the amount of capital on
it and and the changes are are
thoughtful and in line with what the
main problems are. So yeah, I think like
blockchains are are filled with periods
of extreme bullishness and extreme
bearishness. Ethereum has had its fair
share of both. I'm very happy to say we
are it seems like we're on the other
side of the cycle. um meaning that
sentiment has shifted to be quite good
on Ethereum. But regardless of whether
it's good or bad, we're long-term
believers because we think that the
tooling and and kind of philosophy
around development is is right for what
Ethereum is trying to be. Yeah. And so I
like to be delicate when I start talking
about like the price of digital assets
because that's nothing we can control
and anybody who guesses is just pulling
a guess out of their ass. But we
definitely saw like and the products
you're building are addressing ETH the
asset and everything you just said is
these are the pros for ETH the
architecture. This is why the
architecture is going to continue to
persist and why people will continue to
build on it. But at the end of the day
the beauty of blockchains is that they
have the economics built natively into
the stack. So we can't not address
things like token price. So, I'm not
asking token price, but I want to delve
into a little bit about what your
theories might be for why ETH, the
asset, maybe has not appreciated in
value as much as its network activity
has. I'm sure that maybe the Pectra
upgrade and a lot of the other upgrades
that have come recently and maybe even
the perception of the Ethereum
Foundation might have helped boost the
price in the short term, but like where
was the disconnect? Because we're seeing
all these RWAs come on chain. We're
seeing all these active uses, uh, active
wallet addresses, still using Ethereum.
We're seeing TVL and DeFi activity
picking up, but the asset itself is kind
of like slow to capture that. And so
maybe we're still at a place in
blockchain where the market still
doesn't fairly value the price of a
digital asset or whatever, but like
what's kind of your outlook on how a
native asset acrru value? because I do
think that this probably impacts the the
products that you guys offer at the end
of the day. So I think part of the
reason why ETH didn't acrew a lot of
value in the the last I guess half cycle
was Ethereum faced a scaling problem a
couple of years ago where Ethereum block
block space became extremely expensive.
Gas was really high and the blockchain
became virtually unusable by the
majority of people because who's going
to spend $200 to send a transaction? So
Ethereum solution was layer 2 scaling.
So rollups and and and other chains that
basically post proofs to Ethereum. So
transactions happen on these other
chains and proof that they were
successful and legitimate gets posted to
Ethereum to to reduce the cost and
burden on the main Ethereum chain. What
ended up happening is all the
transaction activity moved to these
layer 2s and Ethereum the chain was
acrewing far less fees which impacts the
burn of Ethereum through kind of the the
Ethereum burn mechanism. There's a lot
of debate in the Ethereum community
whether this was a good thing or bad
thing. My personal take is this this was
a good thing because it diversified the
kind of transaction execution
environments on Ethereum. So I I think
it makes the the broader Ethereum
ecosystem more decentralized. And two, I
think that Ethereum is at a point in its
scaling cycle where the direct fee
revenue uh probably shouldn't be as tied
to the value of the token. Meaning that
some blockchain, some tokens definitely
should be valued based on the revenue
accured. That's how stocks are valued.
You discount the cash flows to present
value and you say like this is what it's
worth today. Ethereum should be valued
probably more like Bitcoin in that it is
valued based on what it secures and
represents. So if Ethereum secures the
decentralized financial system and the
decentralized financial system is worth
trillions of dollars, I think Ethereum
in itself should be worth trillions of
dollars in the same way that Bitcoin is
kind of viewed as a multi-trillion
dollar asset because it is digital gold
and represents freedom and safety of
money. So I think that's the shift that
Ethereum is like undergoing this like
revenue valuation to something more more
intangible I would say. So that friction
point probably led to a lot of negative
price action because the revenue was
growing down but the utility of the
network and value of the network was
definitely increasing and that seemed
like a a market disconnect of like not
shifting to value it on on these other
properties that are that are clearly
moving in the right direction. And so,
uh, Plaza is not built on ETL1. It's
built on top of Bass. So, why did you
guys opt to build on an L2? And maybe
you can also share a little bit of the
thought process that went into choosing
Bass as the L2. Why not like Arbitum or
Optimism or anything else? We built on
an L2 because we want to give users as
as low transaction cost as as possible.
So L2s are are still cheaper than uh L1
in terms of uh being able to to move
your money around and the bridging
process between ETL1 and L2s and L2s to
other L2s is is quite good today. So you
don't give up anything really by
building on an L2 versus an L1. Um why
bass specifically? We went through quite
a quite a process for for picking Bass
and it was very clear at the end of the
process that Bass was uh like the
obvious choice. One, I think they're
super focused on UX um which is quite
important for on-ramping the the next
billion crypto users. Coinbase has
already won the market in the US uh for
centralized exchange. They are the most
trusted party. They've done it for more
than a decade now. They custody all
pretty much all of the major ETFs like
the underlying crypto assets. So they
have this institutional and retail trust
that is impossible to replicate with the
kind of shift in regulations on how
crypto companies can can market to
Americans uh and the level of focus that
the US now has on I guess crypto as a
strategic uh a strategic initiative. We
think that the US is going to massively
on-ramp into crypto and when they do
it's coming through Coinbase. So having
a really good user experience of you on
you onboarded through Coinbase, you move
to web 3 via the Coinbase wallet app and
then you can use apps like Plaza within
that app without downloading anything
else. All without gas because Coinbase
sponsors gas is the winning UX. The
trust with institutions, another great
thing. Um, and we like that they're very
transparent about how the sequencer
operates of of the L2. So, how
transactions get ordered and processed
before they're proved on Ethereum's
chain. That helps prevent a lot of weird
things that you actually see on Ethereum
L1, which is like very technical term,
but ME like sandwich attacks, uh, people
front running transactions, things like
that. That happens on Ethereum L1, but
it does not happen on base. I'm from the
crypto class of 2017 and I basically
didn't use Ethereum at all for my first
five years in the space because I
remember when CryptoKitties clogged
Ethereum and made it too expensive to
use back then and then come like the
second bull run after that NFTTS uh all
these things were kind of like jacking
up the price of Ethereum to use and it
wasn't until I started using Bass that I
started re-evaluating my relationship
with Ethereum as a blockchain user.
So, personally speaking, anecdotally,
like Bass is what brought me back to
Ethereum and brought me to EVM land. So,
I'm I'm curious to hear if maybe there
are any kind of relationships or doors
that have been opened for maybe larger
scale players, trifi guys, institutional
players to look into what Plaza is
building um as a result of building on
top of base. Like, has this been a
conversation starter for you with uh
particular users or clients? Yeah, it's
it certainly makes the conversations
easier. Like these large crypto
institutions, most of them, if you're a
big company, you you don't have a hot
wallet on your MacBook. You don't even
have a ledger uh with your with your
private key. You you need some like real
custody solution because maybe there
needs to be 15 people in your company
with different levels of authorization
to do different things. And you need to
be able to go to your shareholders and
say if something goes wrong, well, it
was those other guys, not us. So most of
them all use Coinbase custody. So having
the conversation of, okay, your assets
are in Coinbase custody. The opportunity
we're presenting is on Coinbase's chain,
you already trust Coinbase. It makes the
the conversation a lot easier. Um, with
a lot of other L2s, um, they either have
to underwrite decentralized tech, which
means they need to hire people to think
about how the blockchain works and make
sure it's it's fair. uh or they need to
trust some party. If they're going to
trust some party, uh if they already
trust Coinbase, it's it's it's it's
relatively easy. So, we we found that
that conversation is a lot easier uh
being on base than it is on on other
chains. With cryptonnated institutions,
I would say the difference between base,
arbitrum, salana, and hyperlquid are
it's actually like pretty marginal.
They're all pretty much trusted, but
it's specifically for like that one
degree removed of like, oh, I've heard
of Coinbase, but I don't really know
blockchain stuff that Coinbase and base
are are much easier conversation to
have. Yeah. And so I think one of the
killer use cases for Plaza is that
you're catering to different risk
appetites. So even just looking at like
the two flagship products, Bond Eith and
Levath, they go after the the very
different ends of the spectrum for for
risk in this space. So, I want to talk a
little bit about Bond ETH and who are
the types of folks that are interested
in Bond ETH? Um, what's like their
average risk appetite like? Are they are
they willing to be a little bit
degenerate or is this quarterly coupon
yield something that is able to make it
a like a stepping stone for them to
onboard into web 3 into digital assets?
Bond is very much not a DGEN product.
Although I have seen some some people uh
talk about leverage looping bond ETH to
speculate on the yield. But the primary
user of of Bond ETH is someone who maybe
Ethereum is too volatile for them. Uh
they don't want to watch their portfolio
go up and down 5% every day. That that
gives them stress. They would rather
earn uh some steady yield. They probably
already have stable coins. And what
they're seeing with stable coins is,
hey, I can lend them out for like 4%.
And that's maybe not enough yield for
the inflation I need to fight in my
country. So they're looking for
something that's maybe a little riskier
than a stable coin, but not as risky as
Ethereum. And that's really the the
sweet spot for for bond ETH. So you want
something that hovers around $100. It's
not pegged, uh, but it it's relatively
stable and it earns a 10% yield because
it's a high yield bond backed by
Ethereum. Uh, that's probably the right
Bond ETH customer. Can you just go into
a little bit there? Um, because like the
hund $100 is kind of like the sweet
number. Where where is this coming from?
Like why am I only able to buy $100 of
bond at a time? Why like can you just
delve into that a little bit more? Yeah.
So bonds in traditional finance are
generally quoted at at around $100 for
what they call par. So we we made bond
ETH the same. So it it it tends to stay
around $100 per bond ETH. You can buy as
much or as little bond ET as as you
want. You can buy it like fractionalized
to to any small number or as much in in
one transaction as you want, but
generally each bond ETH stays around
$100. What's the way in which you kind
of like keep that peg? Because as we are
very well aware, digital assets are
extremely volatile. I mean, in the past
year, we've seen Ethereum go from
anywhere from $3,000 to $1,500. So,
what's kind of the mechanism that keeps
that pe that pegish kind of like stable
$100? How do you guys keep that? Bond
can experience true price discovery. So,
it can fall to 90. It can go up to 110
if the market feels like it should be
priced that way for the risk. So first
of all, we we let the market price risk.
We don't want to fight the market. Like
where protocols blow up is when they're
trying to maintain a peg and the market
is fighting them for because they've had
some issue. So bond ETH can can freely
float. But essentially the where it gets
its stability from is the fact that
there's this vault of ETH liquid staking
and liquid restake tokens that sit there
and the value of those assets is always
significantly greater than the value of
the bond ETH outstanding. So right now
it's it's actually two times as as much
value of ETH in this vault uh as the
bond ETH outstanding. And where that
excess comes from is all the people
seeking leverage. So effectively what's
happened is both the leverage and bond
investors have contributed some ETH to
the vault and that vault has promised
these bond investors, hey we will pay
you your your steady return. Uh the
leverage investors are taking first loss
and covering your position. So, as ETH
moves up and down, they're the ones who
uh their their position goes down or up
based on that volatility of ETH in an
amplified way. So, they're like the
buffer for Bond ETH that kind of
protects your position. And you
mentioned um that maybe the type of
client that is buying Bond ETH is maybe
like on the lower end of the spectrum
when it comes to risk. Maybe they also
hold stable coins because they want to
get that yield, but they want to chase a
little bit of a higher yield. So when
when you're talking with these folks,
how do you kind of help them grock with
how Bond Eith might fit into their
portfolio? Like what's the the
allocation uh percentage that a lot of
these CL customers or clients are kind
of identifying for for Bond ETH when it
comes to like their portfolios? If
you've ever talked to a financial
adviser or watched a YouTube video or
used a robo advisor, um you probably
heard that you should be exposed to like
60% stocks and 40% bonds because the
stocks are where you find growth and the
bonds are where you find stability and
yield and sometimes the stocks will do
better and sometimes the the bonds will
do better depending on how the market is
doing. We think that crypto should
should move in that direction. So we
think that people should hold some bonds
for steady yield to to smooth out their
volatility. They're not perfectly
correlated with the underlying crypto
assets. So to use big finance words, it
improves your risk adjusted return to
have not perfectly correlated assets all
sitting in a portfolio. I don't I'm not
recommending 6040 specifically. I think
you should do what's right for your risk
tolerance. Uh I'm relatively young and I
like to take risk. Uh I'm I'm the
founder of Plaza Finance. That
inherently was a risk. So I might skew
more towards higher exposure to like
something like a leveraged asset or a
spot asset and and lower on the bond
side. But for someone else who's maybe
older or less risk-seeking, maybe it
looks like 60% bonds and and 40% stocks.
So in this case in the decentralized
financial system, we we think people
should be able to kind of move their
risk along a spectrum based on what's
suited perfectly for them and having
more more safe assets like like bonds on
chain that are decentralized. So you
still don't have to trust an institution
or us even to when you buy them. We
think that that uh kind of introducing
those assets helps improve their
riskadjusted returns and creating this
ecosystem increases the number of people
who are maybe willing to to try uh
decentralized finance. So if you're out
there and you don't own crypto, maybe
this is a good uncorrelated thing to put
in your portfolio. If you do own crypto,
maybe it's a good way to improve your
risk adjusted returns. Yeah, I like it
as it's an interesting barbell strategy
to kind of like re re go on the other
side of of the risk spectrum and have an
asset that does return a a stable amount
that you can kind of depend on uh on an
annual basis. And so that's kind of what
I wanted to ask next actually. Um so how
does bond ETH insure pay out of 10 USD
per year? It's it's it's 2.5 USD per
quarter. Are there any situations in
which a catastrophic market event
happens and bondeth cannot return 2.5
USD per quarter or are there other
market situations where it does return
more than 2.5 USD per quarter? Uh yeah,
so it produces a a stable two and a half
per quarter and how that's generated is
through the the yield of the liquid
staking tokens that under underly it
also leverage investors paying the bond
investors for their leverage. So we
basically take the some of the assets in
the pool backing bond ETH and Lev ETH
every quarter and 2.5% uh for the coupon
are are sold in an auction process to
generate the USDC to pay the the bond
coupon. As ETH goes up and down, you
either need to sell more or less to
generate the same uh fixed 2 1.5%. The
protocol is is unique in that it it
self-balances, meaning it'll delever or
lever up as market conditions change to
ensure that there's always enough assets
to to generate kind of the the stable
return. The why you are paid a 10% yield
when the risk-free rate in the market is
around 4.5%. Is because there is more
risk than a treasury bond. It is not
risk- free. So that I want to make
perfectly clear. And the risk here is
that if ETH falls 90% in value in one
day, that could drastically impact the
ability to continue to pay out the fixed
10% yield. So what the protocol does is
it simply pauses coupons. You always
have assets backing your bond ETH that
you can redeem out of it. So if if you
want to get your money out, you can. And
at that point, the protocol waits for
the price of ETH or the leverage of the
protocol to uh return to a state that
continues to support coupons. So, it
pauses until the protocol is ready to
restart and continue paying. So, if you
are a long-term believer in ETH as an
asset, maybe you think ETH is overvalued
today, but you think ETH will always be
worth something that is material, then
bond ETH is a way to make sure you get a
fixed payment for forever. Basically,
even if ETH falls significantly, the
worst that happens to you is you skip a
couple payments and your payments
restart. That's kind of what you need to
believe to to own bond ETH and be
comfortable or you need to feel like the
10% yield uh covers you for for that
risk. Has there been a a time in in the
history of Plaza's existence where
coupon payments haven't been able to be
distributed on a quarterly basis? No.
And there has not been an instance in
Eat's history where coupons would have
been paused. But I if it can happen, it
eventually will happen. It's just a
question of is it a 100 years from now
or is it a year from now? And that I
don't speculate on. Uh we just worked on
building a a protocol that can survive
every market condition that we we know.
Sure. So can you share a little bit more
about the auction process? Is this like
Treasury Direct where I have to put in a
a monthly bid or a weekly bid to buy a
Treasury bill? Is this done at a more
rapid rate or frequency? What's that
like? It's once a quarter. Anyone can
participate, though we think it'll be
really hard for the average investor to
beat out a market maker on on this
specific piece. But it's basically uh
the protocol selling ETH for USDC to pay
out to bond holders. So it's it's an
open option where best bid for so the
protocol uh gets the most efficient
price wins and generally for the size of
the protocol you would be bidding to
supply uh order of magnitude millions of
USDC for ETH. So maybe not something
that's super consumer uh focused but one
of the core mechanisms to be able to
swap assets in a way that's safe, price
efficient, uh transparent and and open
to everyone. Very cool. And so as we
kind of uh zoom out and wrap up, I do
want to talk a little bit about Lebath.
You guys have kind of a killer slogan,
leverage without liquidation. So can you
just share a little bit about um the
underlying mechanics of Lev ETH, how one
can have leverage without liquidation,
and then also kind of expand on the
relationship that Lev has with Bond ETH
and and the payments and things of this
nature. So Lev is levered Ethereum. What
you've effectively done when you buy
levy is you've borrowed the the ETH of
bond ETH holders. So you are providing
the cushion for bond ETH holders. You're
levered. So if if ETH goes down, you you
take the L. So bond ETH investors don't.
But if ETH goes up, you're the one who
benefits from all that capital
appreciation. Uh uh whereas bond ETH
holders have opted for a steady yield.
It's packaged as a nice token. So unlike
trading leverage on a perpetuals futures
exchange, you don't have your assets
locked on that exchange. You can use
other DeFi. You can send them across
chain. You can hold it in cold storage
in your wallet if you want. And where
the liquidation free aspect comes from
is the Plaza AMM. So we talked about how
the protocol is selfbalancing. As ETH
prices fall, the protocol is
incentivized to delever levy. When ETH
is going up, it's it's to lever up levy.
This aspect keeps it such that there is
always ETH in the plaza vault that you
can redeem your Lev ETH for. We're not
saying that you can't take a loss on Lev
like Lev ETH is more volatile than ETH.
If ETH goes down, Levath will do worse
than ETH. If ETH goes up, Lev Eth will
do better than ETH. That's an inherent
property of leverage. But as ETH falls,
let's say in that 90% down scenario that
we we talked about as Armageddon, your
Lev ETH will asmtoically approach zero.
uh rather than instantly jump to zero
and close out your position. So if ETH
price recovers in the future, you
participate in that recovery and you're
not closed out of your trade like you
would on another exchange. So for
someone who is sitting there and like I
don't know what ETH will do tomorrow,
but I know in 10 years it'll be
significantly more valuable because I'm
a strong believer in ETH. This is the
product that was built for you. Can you
share a little bit of insights then into
how the product fared post liberation
day when we saw massive drops across the
whole crypto industry? ETH got hit
really hard. I think it went down 40% at
at its uh top to bottom this year in
2025. So what were kind of like the
lessons learned? Did did bond or levy
perform in the ways that you guys had
thought? Did your clients and users kind
of like huddle onto the assets in the
way that you were expecting clients and
users to? So liberation day was before
the protocol launched. So we were on
test net. Nothing broke on test net
which felt good. I think the protocol
with ETH price falling the protocol did
in fact delever on test net. So that
felt quite good. Since Lev ETH has been
live it was like ETH has done quite
well. So it has performed at about 2x
the price performance of ETH which which
is great. Happy to see our our customers
win but the protocol I guess since live
has not seen a massive draw down of ETH.
We've seen 10% moves in ETH uh down and
and kind of the protocol has performed
as expected which is levy falls 20% in a
day and that's scary for people but
generally the the trend has been upward
so it has recovered in the few days
after. So yeah, we we feel like it was
quite battle tested on on test net and
through historical simulation. So we'll
see how it goes with uh with the next
market test. Yeah, knock on wood. So
kind of uh zooming out and wrapping up,
uh I think the elephant in the room is
that Americans can't quite use Plaza
finance right now. So what do you guys
need from a regulatory body or a
legislative body here in the States for
Plaza to feel comfortable to be able to
open the doors for American clients and
users? Um yeah, so one thing that we are
waiting on is what it looks like for
decentralized derivative regulation. So
there's tons of regulations around
derivatives. There are starting to be
more uh more color around tokens, but we
are kind of in this next uh bucket of
like what happens when both are together
and the regulation is is totally
unclear. uh if there's a license that we
can apply for, we'd be happy to do that
because we want to service Americans.
But today, like that process is is sort
of vague. We hope that there's going to
be more clarity in the next couple of
months, but for now, Plaza Finance is
primarily available to those who are
outside the US. Maybe this is gray area
or not an area you can speculate on, but
what about like secondary markets? If
you go on unis swap, you can see bond
ETH and levy. though just trading one
ETH into those pools creates a lot of
slippage so it doesn't necessarily seem
like there's a robust secondary market.
Is that something that's like out of
your control out of your perspective or
is there kind of like a way around these
kind of setbacks or or regulator
regulatory uncertainties like are
secondary markets going to be a thing
for bond ETH and Lev ETH or is this kind
of out of your purview? Yes. So uh one
of the core advantages of of Plaza is
it's a permissionless protocol and Bond
Eith and Lev are tokens that can trade
on any exchange. So we we can't market
uh Bond Eith or Levath to to US
customers. We can't service them on our
front-end UI but US customers can
theoretically buy them on Uniswap or
Aerodrome. I think Aerodrum has the the
deepest liquidity um if those platforms
service American. So it's it's just a
token that you can buy. Um so there's
there's no restriction there. So what
are kind of like the next steps for
Plaza? What's on your road map? Are
there any other derivatives that are
that are on the mind? Yeah. So I'm
calling you from Bitcoin 2025. The next
big frontier which we've kind of
highlighted in in in the Plaza road map
and the community has been asking for
for for quite a while are bonds and
leverage on Bitcoin. Bitcoin is clearly
the biggest and most desired asset in
the decentralized financial system. Um,
we think it's a great asset to build
bonds backed by because it's it's much
more stable than a lot of other
cryptocurrencies and it's clear from
Perpetual's futures interest that people
definitely want to go lever along
Bitcoin. So, it's it's a natural
extension of our underlying mechanism.
Other things on the road map, we've
we've explored Salana as well because
the user interest has has has been quite
high. uh we like to focus on the highest
quality assets in the decentralized
financial system. So I would expect that
as well in the coming months. But the
the core thing about our protocol is
that we can take any asset and transform
the riskreward profile into any number
of structures. Um so opening that up for
any user to be able to create any
structure on any asset whether it's an
ROWA or a cryptonative token. We think
that's a quite exciting frontier and
what we're building towards. We're
definitely at the top of the hour, but
I'm just curious, are you guys exploring
Bitcoin L2s to build this product on the
the native Bitcoin layer like a wrapped
Bitcoin token? It it will be on a on an
L2 uh as a uh similar structure to what
we did with ETH um with kind of Bitcoin
uh Bitcoin liquid staked tokens. Very
cool. Well, if somebody's interested in
learning more about Plaza Finance,
what's the best way they can get in
contact with you and or follow along
with the project? You can follow us on
Twitter, um, plaza finance. You can join
our our Discord community and check out
app.plaza.inance.
Awesome. Ryan, thank you so much for
taking time out of your Bitcoin
conference experience to join the Smart
Economy podcast. It was uh a pleasure to
chat with you. Um, I had a ton of fun
digging into Plaza. American regulators,
I look forward to the day when there's
enough regulatory guidelines so that we
can use Plaza Finance. Uh, but until
then, um, I'll have to keep my eyes
peeled on the secondary markets. So, uh,
yeah, thank you so much for your time
today. It was a great chat, Ryan.
Thanks, Dylan. Cheers. Thanks for tuning
in to the Smart Economy Podcast. To stay
in the loop with all our latest episodes
and insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com. And don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content. If
you enjoyed today's discussion, please
consider showing your support by liking,
commenting on, and reviewing this
episode on your favorite podcasting
platform. Your feedback helps us reach
more listeners and brings even better
content your way. We'd also love to hear
from you, so please drop a comment on
Spotify or YouTube to share what topics
you'd like us to cover or who you'd like
to see as our next guest. And if you or
someone you know might make a great
guest, then please reach out. We're
always on the hunt for fresh voices and
new perspectives. And for our NEO token
holders out there, please consider
voting for NEON News today as your
council representative. We've proudly
been serving the NEO ecosystem since
2017, and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
opportunities.
With all that said, thank you so much
for listening to the Smart Economy
podcast and we look forward to catching
you next time.